all right so this is the Wow Cataclysm
mouse and I've actually got one of my
co-workers who moved to our Ontario
office helping me with this little
filming session the first thing I
noticed about this guy is it's huge so
there it is next to my incredibly
beat-up and rugged looking g9 so you can
there's there some distinct differences
between the the the crafted sort of
worn-out finish on the Cataclysm Mouse
and the disgusting one help finish on my
old d9 so the first thing I want to show
you guys and the reason I have him here
holding the camera so that I can
actually operate the mouse while while
he points the camera things the first
thing I noticed is it's really really
large so it's actually not I'd say it's
not quite comfortable for me to reach
all of the buttons like I can't really
reach that one I can just barely reach
that one and if you have slightly larger
hands than me that's probably a good
thing and you'll find this Mouse quite
comfortable I think the overall shape is
kind of like the iqari laser and one of
the other things that I did notice is
that not everyone cares about this but I
have a hard time picking up the mouse to
move it if I reach the edge of my mouse
pad without mashing the buttons on the
side so that's something you're gonna
want to watch out for if you do have
larger hands it might not be such a
problem I'm downloading the driver
package right now it's 26 Meg's so I
hope there's some pretty good
functionality in there and I will show
you guys that in a few minutes but this
is just the initial impressions after
putting it on my sx mouse pad which by
the way it glides on like nothing I have
ever seen before
it probably glides better on this mouse
pad than my Akari laser my g9 or any
other Mouse that I have thrown at it
tracking is already dramatically better
than the original wow how switch
honestly I really didn't like it's hard
to quantify but I didn't really like the
feel of the laser when it tracked
whereas this one is quite smooth quite
responsive it they've definitely
upgraded it a lot in that regard okay so
the first thing that the driver
installation did is it updated my
firmware and then it installed itself so
I've got lots of functionality here so
the first thing I want to show you guys
is some of the basic features so over
here the default see
value was at about 800 I turned it up a
little bit and then I turn the
sensitivity down in order to get the
movement just right for me
like I said I love the way this most
tracks though it's very smooth and it
glides great on the SX mousepad all
right so we've got the pointer speed
sensitivity okay so that's all of your
basic controls you don't have quite the
level of granularity that you do with a
more twitch FPS gaming oriented Mouse
from steel series like these I or the
Akari laser but you do have that basic
stuff and it's still better than what
you're gonna get with a generic Mouse by
a long shot now where this mouse really
gets complicated
is all of this stuff so let's start with
the colors I wish I could show you guys
this in the dark but I don't actually
have a way to turn off the lights in my
office so here's one thing I'm gonna do
I'm just gonna turn that down so that we
can actually focus on this there we go
so you can see the color intensity and
pulsation so color changes the well the
color so you can see I have it set to
red right now intensity changes the
brightness and pulsation so I'm gonna
show you guys like a low pulsation
compared to that I had before so you can
see it actually turns off and then comes
on quite slowly so that's kind of
depends what kind of a look you're going
for colors you have pretty much every
option under the Sun so I'm gonna change
it to blue there it is blue I'll show
you guys a couple of the different
colors why don't we do green let's see
what like a like a bright green looks
like there's a green looks pretty cool I
could kind of do this all day this is
the kind of feature that I could like
play with forever on a mouse there's
yellow pretty cool okay so here I'm
gonna turn that back to normal all right
and then there's a whole bunch of stuff
here as well so here are all of the
different things that we can assign to
buttons so first of all you've got all
of your built-in while stuff because
World of Warcraft has some pretty
specific rules for how you are allowed
to bind actions to keys and what is
considered cheating and what is not so
this allows you to just simply bind
World of Warcraft actions to the mouse
buttons without actually binding Lakey
or keys to your mouse buttons that is
built right into wow you can actually
configure this within game as well
should you so desire so you can bind
game commands to a button you can bind
change CPI commands to a button this is
cool check this out
CPI op CPI down so you can assign that
to whatever you want most gaming mice
have actually here d9 is a perfect
example have dedicated buttons for that
and a lot of them don't actually allow
you to change them to different buttons
or bind those to something else if you
don't really care about changing your
sensitivity so that's a pretty neat
feature that they've built right into
the driver
there's also change profile so you can
set a button to change your profile up
profile down or even assign them to
specific profiles so your profiles allow
you to have up to ten different sets of
bound actions to your buttons on the
mouse so if I decided okay well I'm
gonna use like let's say these two for
like profile one and two that way yeah I
sacrifice those two profiles but I allow
myself to bind two entirely different
sets of commands to these ones which are
really more convenient to reach anyway
for my hands and you know two things
here two things here so it really gives
you a lot more flexibility depending on
how the mouse is most comfortably used
for you so that's a pretty cool thing
too and then finally whoops look like
the wrong thing
finally custom macros so you can create
new ones yeah yeah yeah blah blah blah
Wow you're not allowed to use macros and
Wow thank you don't show me that again
so why don't I just create a Mac you
macro that's copy/paste or rather copy
okay so here we go
okay so enter okay okay I don't have I
don't quite have it figured out how the
macro recording works so give me two
seconds here guys alright I figured it
out so there's a couple of different
ways you can create custom macros and
really I don't play well so this is the
functionality that would pretty much
sell this mouse to me okay so I've gone
no delay I've created some custom macros
all you do is type a name just click on
the block's press the keys you want and
then click okay so I've created copy
paste and cut you use the convenient
little chart here to say okay which
buttons go where and then you can just
map them like this so if I click here
and then click copy and I can change it
to whatever I want so I want that to be
a custom macro copy then I can have that
functionality with that button so all
that's really left now is to just show
you guys the functionality that this
enables for the average office worker
yeah you might look weird for having one
of these on your desk in the office but
I mean come on okay I've already got you
know 215 keyboard I have four monitors
at my desk so I couldn't look much
weirder so I'm not going to worry too
much about it so I type something
testing this all right so I've built in
a copy cut and pasted to my mouse should
be no edition so I okay I get copy right
now there we are copy and then you know
enter enter you don't you could build in
like you've got so many buttons here you
could put enter you could put spacebar
you can put anything that you use
frequently just bind it to the mouse so
I'm gonna click this button here and
then I'm going to paste hehe that's so
cool
so yeah here you know what yeah I'm
gonna show you guys real time the the
creation process so I knew okay so we're
gonna make it
enter I don't want any delays okay and
then all I want is enter and then okay
so now I'm gonna find a button that I
want so I think button number four
should be pretty good for enter then I
go over to this interface here I click
custom macros I go to enter apply okay
so I have applied that to the mouse so
now what I can do is I can press enter
enter enter paste enter enter paste
enter enter paste and then if I want to
I can go up here I can
can actually cut instead of copying if
I'm hitting the right one it'll take a
little bit of practice getting used to
where all the buttons are but then I
could press enter enter paste so hold on
let me try that again
cut oh I don't know if the I don't know
if it might have been cut wrong but
anyway pretty cool hey guys so that is
my overall impressions of the
SteelSeries MMO gaming mouse the new
Cataclysm edition basically I think it's
just so much of an improvement over the
old one which I looked at back at launch
in terms of the software as well as the
hardware and I actually really like this
I may just find myself replacing my
trusty well used g9 for this at work
because the the productivity of this
just looks phenomenal oh yeah not to
mention there's memory on board so you
can save your profiles and carry them
around with you pretty sweet don't
forget to subscribe to Linus tech tips
for more unboxings reviews and other
computers and gaming hardware videos